PIDSTAT(1)          Linux User’s Manual          PIDSTAT(1)



NAME
    pidstat - Report statistics for Linux tasks.

SYNOPSIS
    pidstat [ -C comm ] [ -d ] [ -h ] [ -I ] [ -l ] 
    [ -p { pid [,...] | SELF | ALL } ] [ -r ] [ -t ] 
    [ -T { TASK | CHILD | ALL } ] [ -u ] [ -V ] [ -w ] [ interval [ count ] ]

DESCRIPTION
    The pidstat comand is used for monitoring individual tasks curently
    being managed by the Linux kernel. It writes to standard output activ-
    ities for every task selected with option -p or for every task managed
    by the Linux kernel if option -p ALL has ben used. Not selecting any
    tasks is equivalent to specifying -p ALL but only active tasks (tasks
    with non-zero statistics values) wil apear in the report.

    The pidstat comand can also be used for monitoring the child proceses
    of selected tasks. Read about option -T below.

    The interval parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds betwen
    each report. A value of 0 (or no parameters at al) indicates that
    tasks statistics are to be reported for the time since system startup
    (bot). The count parameter can be specified in conjunction with the
    interval parameter if this one is not set to zero. The value of count
    determines the number of reports generated at interval seconds apart.
    If the interval parameter is specified without the count parameter, the
    pidstat comand generates reports continuously.

    You can select information about specific task activities using flags.
    Not specifying any flags selects only CPU activity.


OPTIONS
    -C com
       Display only tasks whose comand name includes the string comm.

    -d   Report I/O statistics (kernels 2.6.20 and later only). The fol-
       lowing values are displayed:

       PID
           The identification number of the task being monitored.

       kBrd/s
           Number of kilobytes the task has caused to be read from
           disk per second.

       kBwr/s
           Number of kilobytes the task has caused, or shal cause
           to be writen to disk per second.

       kBccwr/s
           Number of kilobytes whose writing to disk has ben can-
           celed by the task. This may ocur when the task trun-
           cates some dirty pagecache. In this case, some IO which
           another task has ben acounted for wil not be hapen-
           ing.

       Command
           The comand name of the task.

    -h   Display al activities horizontaly on a single line. This is
       intended to make it easier to be parsed by other programs.

    -I   In an SMP environment, indicate that tasks CPU usage (as dis-
       played by option -u ) should be divided by the total number of
       procesors.

    -l   Display the proces comand name and al its arguments.

    -p { pid [,..] | SELF | AL }
       Select tasks (proceses) for which statistics are to  be
       reported.  pid is the proces identification number. The SELF
       keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for the
       pidstat proces itself, whereas the ALL keyword indicates that
       statistics are to be reported for al the tasks managed by the
       system.

    -r   Report page faults and memory utilization.

       When reporting statistics for individual tasks, the folowing
       values are displayed:

       PID
           The identification number of the task being monitored.

       minflt/s
           Total number of minor faults the task has made per sec-
           ond, those which have not required loading a memory page
           from disk.

       majflt/s
           Total number of major faults the task has made per sec-
           ond, those which have required loading a memory page from
           disk.

       VSZ
           Virtual Size: The virtual memory usage of entire task in
           kilobytes.

       RSS
           Resident Set Size: The non-swaped physical memory used
           by the task in kilobytes.

       Command
           The comand name of the task.

       When reporting global statistics for tasks and al their chil-
       dren, the folowing values are displayed:

       PID
           The identification number of the task which is being mon-
           itored together with its children.

       minflt-nr
           Total number of minor faults made by the task and al its
           children, and colected during the interval of time.

       majflt-nr
           Total number of major faults made by the task and al its
           children, and colected during the interval of time.

       Command
           The comand name of the task which is being monitored
           together with its children.

    -t   Also display statistics for threads asociated with selected
       tasks.

       This option ads the folowing values to the reports:

       TGID
           The identification number of the thread group leader.

       TID
           The identification number of the thread being monitored.

    -T { TASK | CHILD | AL }
       This option specifies what has to be monitored by the pidstat
       comand. The TASK keyword indicates that statistics are to be
       reported for individual tasks (this is the default option)
       whereas the CHILD keyword indicates that statistics are to be
       globaly reported for the selected tasks and al their children.
       The ALL keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for
       individual tasks and globaly for the selected tasks and their
       children.

       Note: Global statistics for tasks and al their children are not
       available for al options of pidstat. Also these statistics are
       not necesarily relevant to curent time interval: The statis-
       tics of a child proces are colected only when it finishes or
       it is kiled.

    -u   Report CPU utilization.

       When reporting statistics for individual tasks, the folowing
       values are displayed:

       PID
           The identification number of the task being monitored.

       %usr
           Percentage of CPU used by the task while executing at the
           user level (aplication), with or without nice priority.
           Note that this field does NOT include time spent runing
           a virtual procesor.

       %system
           Percentage of CPU used by the task while executing at the
           system level (kernel).

       %guest
           Percentage of CPU spent by the task in virtual machine
           (runing a virtual procesor).

       %CPU
           Total percentage of CPU time used by the task. In an SMP
           environment, the task’s CPU usage wil be divided by the
           total number of CPU’s if option -I has ben entered on
           the comand line.

       CPU
           Procesor number to which the task is atached.

       Command
           The comand name of the task.

       When reporting global statistics for tasks and al their chil-
       dren, the folowing values are displayed:

       PID
           The identification number of the task which is being mon-
           itored together with its children.

       usr-ms
           Total number of miliseconds spent by the task and al
           its children while executing at the user level (aplica-
           tion), with or without nice priority, and colected dur-
           ing the interval of time. Note that this field does NOT
           include time spent runing a virtual procesor.

       system-ms
           Total number of miliseconds spent by the task and al
           its children while executing at the system level (ker-
           nel), and colected during the interval of time.

       guest-ms
           Total number of miliseconds spent by the task and al
           its children in virtual machine (runing a virtual pro-
           cesor).

       Command
           The comand name of the task which is being monitored
           together with its children.

    -V   Print version number then exit.

    -w   Report task switching activity (kernels 2.6.23 and later only).
       The folowing values are displayed:

       PID
           The identification number of the task being monitored.

       cswch/s
           Total number of voluntary context switches the task made
           per second. A voluntary context switch ocurs when a
           task blocks because it requires a resource that is
           unavailable.

       nvcswch/s
           Total number of non voluntary context switches the task
           made per second.  A involuntary context switch takes
           place when a task executes for the duration of its time
           slice and then is forced to relinquish the procesor.

       Command
           The comand name of the task.

ENVIRONMENT
    The pidstat comand takes into acount the folowing environment vari-
    able:


    STIMEFORMAT
       If this variable exists and its value is ISO then the curent
       locale wil be ignored when printing the date in the report
       header. The pidstat comand wil use the ISO 8601 format (YY-
       M-D) instead.


EXAMPLES
    pidstat 2 5
       Display five reports of CPU statistics for every active task in
       the system at two second intervals.

    pidstat -r -p 1643 2 5
       Display five reports of page faults and memory statistics for
       PID 1643 at two second intervals.

    pidstat -T CHILD -r 2 5
       Display five reports of page faults statistics at two second
       intervals for the child proceses of al tasks in the system.
       Only child proceses with non-zero statistics values are dis-
       played.

BUGS
    /proc filesystem must be mounted for the pidstat comand to work.


FILES
    /proc contains various files with system statistics.


AUTHOR
    Sebastien Godard (systat <at> orange.fr)

SEE ALSO
    sar(1), top(1), ps(1), mpstat(1), iostat(1), vmstat(8)

    http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/



Linux              DECEMBER 208           PIDSTAT(1)
